DOCS 631 Puppet docs (#617)
DataDog/puppet-datadog-agent: README.md

### Configuration

Once the `datadog_agent` module is installed on your `puppetserver`/`puppetmaster` (or on a masterless host), follow these configuration steps:

1. Obtain your [Datadog API key][2].
2. Specify the module to install the Datadog Agent on your nodes.

   ```conf
   include datadog_agent
   ```

    Or assign this module using the Puppet style Parameterized class:

   ```conf
   class { 'datadog_agent':
       api_key => "<YOUR_DD_API_KEY>",
   }
   ```

3. On your `puppetserver`, enable reporting:

   ```conf
   class { 'datadog_agent':
       api_key            => "<YOUR_DD_API_KEY>",
       puppet_run_reports => true,
   }
   ```

    - To support reporting, your Puppet master needs the [dogapi][3] gem installed by running the Puppet Agent on your master with this configuration or installing it manually with `gem`. You may need to restart your `puppetserver` service after installing the `dogapi` gem.
    - `puppetserver_gem` is defined as a module dependency. It is installed automatically when the module is installed.

4. (Optional) Include integrations to use with the Agent, for example:

   ```conf
   include 'datadog_agent::integrations::mongo'
   ```

>     Add the integration configuration to the manifest if it does not have a [manifest with a dedicated class][6]. Below is an example for the `ntp` check:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    In case an integration does not have a [manifest with a dedicated class][6], you can still add configuration for it. Below is an example for the `ntp` check:
```
Configuring an integration this way should be an exception. We try to provide dedicated classes for most integrations.

   ```conf
   class { 'datadog_agent':
       api_key      => "<YOUR_DD_API_KEY>",
       integrations => {
           "ntp" => {
               init_config => {},
               instances => [{
                   offset_threshold => 30,
               }],
           },
       },
   }
   ```

#### Integration versions

To install and pin specific integration versions, specify an integration and version number by using `datadog_agent::install_integration`. This uses the `datadog-agent integration` command to ensure a specific integration is installed or uninstalled, for example:

```conf
datadog_agent::install_integration { "mongo-1.9":
    ensure => present,
    integration_name => 'datadog-mongo',
    version => '1.9.0',
}
```

`ensure` has two options:

- `present` (default)
- `absent` (removes a previously pinned version of an integration)

### Reporting

Ensure the [dogapi][3] gem is available on your system.

> To report changes to your Datadog timeline, enable the report processor on your Puppet master and reporting for your clients. The clients send a run report after each check-in back to the master.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To enable reporting of changes to your Datadog timeline, enable the report processor on your Puppet master and reporting for your clients. The clients send a run report after each check-in back to the master.
```
I like the previous wording better, since we are not talking about generic reports but the 'reporting' feature in Puppet (https://puppet.com/docs/puppet/latest/reporting_about.html)

# Datadog Puppet Module

> 

Reviewer: I like having these on our open source repos. Is there any reason not to have it?

Reviewer: Oh, this is probably because we pull this README into our docs, am I right? It would be nice if there was a way to keep these here without them appearing in the docs... but if that's hard to do we can go without them.

Author: Yep. I moved them to the contributing file.

This module installs the Datadog Agent and sends Puppet reports to Datadog.

## Setup

### Requirements

The Datadog Puppet module supports Linux and Windows and is compatible with Puppet >= 4.6.x or Puppet Enterprise version >= 2016.4. For detailed information on compatibility, check the [module page on Puppet Forge][1].

### Installation

Install the [datadog_agent][1] Puppet module in your Puppet master's module path:

```shell
puppet module install datadog-datadog_agent
```

> **Note**: For CentOS versions <7.0, specify the service provider as `upstart`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Note**: For CentOS/RHEL versions <7.0 and for Ubuntu < 15.04, specify the service provider as `upstart`:
```
Full list of OSes that use upstart.

}
```

> The Puppet configuration file is located in:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Puppet configuration file is located in `/etc/puppetlabs/puppet/puppet.conf`.
```
We only support Puppet 4.x now.

- `/etc/puppetlabs/puppet/puppet.conf` (Puppet >=4.x)

> - `/etc/puppet/puppet.conf` (Puppet <4.x)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

report=true
```

On all of your Puppet client nodes, add the following in the same location:

```ini
[agent]
# ...
report=true
```

#### Troubleshooting

If you see the following error, ensure `reports=datadog_reports` is defined in `[master]`, not `[main]`.

```text
err: Could not send report:
Error 400 on SERVER: Could not autoload datadog_reports:
Class Datadog_reports is already defined in Puppet::Reports
```

### Step-by-step

This is the minimal set of modifications to get started.

1. Edit `/etc/puppetlabs/puppet/puppet.conf` to add the Puppet Agent:

    ```ini
    [master]
    report = true
    reports = datadog_reports
    pluginsync = true

    [agent]
    report = true
    pluginsync = true
    ```

>      **Note**: For older versions of Puppet, edit `/etc/puppet/puppet/puppet.conf`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
Idem, that old versions are not supported.

    ```

     Example response:

    ```text
    info: Retrieving plugin
    info: Caching catalog for alq-linux.dev.datadoghq.com
    info: Applying configuration version '1333470114'
    notice: Finished catalog run in 0.81 seconds
    ```

4. Verify your Puppet data is in Datadog by searching for `sources:puppet` in the [Event Stream][5].

## Masterless Puppet

1. The Datadog module and its dependencies have to be installed on all nodes running masterless.
2. Add this to each node's `site.pp` file:
    ```conf
    class { "datadog_agent":
        api_key            => "<YOUR_DD_API_KEY>",
        puppet_run_reports => true
    }
   ```

3. Configure reports in the `[main]` section of `puppet.conf`:
    ```conf
    [main]
    reports=datadog_reports
    ```
4. Run puppet in masterless configuration:
    ```shell
    puppet apply --modulepath <path_to_modules> <path_to_site.pp>
    ```

## Client settings

### Tagging client nodes

The Datadog Agent configuration file is recreated from the template every Puppet run. If you need to tag your nodes, add an array entry in Hiera:

```conf
datadog_agent::tags:
- 'keyname:value'
- 'anotherkey:%{factname}'
```

> ### Extra configuration variables

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Configuration variables
```
'extra' makes they seem like not needed/additional. The most used config options and some required ones like `site` if using Datadog in EU are in this section, so we want people to read this.

| variable name               | description                                                                                                                                                                                      |
|-----------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `agent_major_version`       | The version of the Agent to install: either 5, 6 or 7 (default: 7).                                                                                                                              |
| `agent_version`             | Lets you pin a specific minor version of the Agent to install, for example: `1:7.16.0-1`. Leave empty to install the latest version.                                                             |
| `collect_ec2_tags`          | Collect an instance's custom EC2 tags as Agent tags by using `yes`.                                                                                                                              |

> | `collect_instance_metadata` | Collect an instance's EC2 metadata as Agent tags by using `yes`.                                                                                                                                 |

Reviewer: These are `true`/`false` booleans now (for a few years actually 😅), instead of `yes`/`no`.

| `datadog_site`              | The Datadog site to report to. Defaults to `datadoghq.com`, set to `datadoghq.eu` to report to the EU site (Agent v6 and v7 only).                                                               |
| `dd_url`                    | The Datadog intake server URL. You are unlikely to need to change this. Overrides `datadog_site`                                                                                                 |
| `host`                      | Overrides the node's host name.                                                                                                                                                                  |
| `local_tags`                | An array of `<KEY:VALUE>` strings that are set as tags for the node.                                                                                                                             |
| `non_local_traffic`         | Allow other nodes to relay their traffic through this node.                                                                                                                                      |

> | `apm_enabled`               | A boolean to enable the APM Agent (defaults to false)..                                                                                                                                          |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `apm_enabled`               | A boolean to enable the APM Agent (defaults to false).                                                                                                                                           |
```
Other below also have two dots.

If you see the following, ensure `reports=datadog_reports` is defined in **[master]**, not **[main]**.

```text
err: Could not send report:
Error 400 on SERVER: Could not autoload datadog_reports:
Class Datadog_reports is already defined in Puppet::Reports
```

## Step-by-step

> This is the minimal set of modifications to get started. These files assume Puppet 4.5.x or higher.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is the minimal set of modifications to get started.
```
The current module only supports puppet >= 4.6.0

2. Edit your `/etc/puppetlabs/code/environments/production/manifests/10_nodes.pp` file to configure your Agent:

    ```conf
    node "default" {
        class { "datadog_agent":
            api_key => "<YOUR_DD_API_KEY>",
        }
    }
    node "puppetmaster" {
        class { "datadog_agent":
            api_key            => "<YOUR_DD_API_KEY>",
            puppet_run_reports => true
        }
    }
    ```

     _Note: This may be file `/etc/puppet/manifests/nodes.pp` on older puppets_

3. Run Puppet Agent

    ```shell
    sudo systemctl restart puppetserver
    sudo puppet agent --onetime --no-daemonize --no-splay --verbose
    ```

     Example response:

    ```text
    info: Retrieving plugin
    info: Caching catalog for alq-linux.dev.datadoghq.com
    info: Applying configuration version '1333470114'
    notice: Finished catalog run in 0.81 seconds
    ```

4. Verify on Datadog

    1. Search for `puppet` on [the Integrations page][4]. The Puppet integration tile displays the install status.
    2. Search for `sources:puppet` in the [Event Stream][5] to see your Puppet events.

## Masterless Puppet

> To use this specific setup, see this [Github gist][6]. This applies to older puppets and is untested on >=4.x Puppet versions.

Reviewer: ````suggestion
1. The Datadog module and its dependencies have to be installed on all nodes running masterless.
2. Add this to each node's `site.pp` file:
    ```conf
    class { "datadog_agent":
        api_key            => "your_api_key_here",
        puppet_run_reports => true
    }
   ```

3. Configure reports in the `[main]` section of `puppet.conf`:
    ```conf
    [main]
    reports=datadog_reports
    ```
4. Run puppet in masterless configuration:
    ```shell
    puppet apply --modulepath <path_to_modules> <path_to_site.pp>
    ```
````
Up to date instructions.

## Client Settings

### Tagging client nodes

The Datadog Agent configuration file is recreated from the template every Puppet run. If you need to tag your nodes, add an array entry in Hiera:

> ```text

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```conf
```
